Borrower APRs and loan characteristics for 113,937 loans were included in the dataset. The characteristics included the initial loan amount, the borrower's Prosper rating, the loan duration, and the borrower's claimed monthly income, among other things. The dataset can be accessed here, while the feature description can be found here.

<h2>Summary of Findings </h2>
  
During my research, I discovered that the borrower APR is inversely connected with the original loan amount. The APR varies greatly depending on the loan amount, although the range of APR decreases as the loan amount increases. Borrower APR also reduces when the credit score improves. Borrowers who have received the highest Prosper ratings have the lowest APR. This suggests that the Prosper rating has a significant impact on borrower APR. Interestingly, when the Prosper grades are raised from HR to A or above, the link between borrower APR and loan amount shifts from negative to slightly positive. This might be because persons with A or AA credit scores prefer to borrow more money, and increasing the APR could discourage them from borrowing even more and Profit should be maximized. People with poorer credit scores tend to borrow less money, therefore lowering the APR may encourage them to borrow more. I also discovered that for folks with HR-C raings, the borrower APR decreases as the borrow period lengthens. However, for persons with B-AA credit scores, the APR rises as the loan duration lengthens.

Aside from the primary interest factors, I discovered that the loan amount is favorably connected with the declared monthly income, which makes sense because borrowers with higher monthly incomes may borrow more money. The loan amount increases as the loan duration lengthens. I also discovered that consumers with higher credit scores had higher monthly income and loan amounts. Borrowers who are working, self-employed, or work full-time have a higher monthly income and loan amount than part-time, retired, or unemployed borrowers. The category term and the Prosper rating elements interact. B and C grades have a higher proportion of 60-month loans. HR rating borrowers can only get loans for 36 months. There is an interplay between term and rating when it comes to loan amount.With a higher Prosper rating, the loan amount for all three terms increases, as does the increase amplitude of loan amount between terms.

<h2>Key Insights for Presentation </h2>

For the presentation, I only focus on the factors that may effect the borrower's APR, which are the original loan amount and the Prosper rating. I began by displaying the distribution of variable borrower APR and loan amount. Then I demonstrated the link between APR and loan amount, as well as APR and credit rating. I also looked at the influence of rating on the link between APR and loan amount, as well as the relationship between borrower APR and term.
  
